NTDS = New Technology Directory services.
DIT = directory information tree
It is active directory database system which stores active directory information. 
NTDS.DIT is the main file of the active directory.
It stores users account,  computer accounts, security groups, passwords related data (hashes only), domain configuration,  directory objects.
It stored on the Domain controller.

ex. suppose a compnay where active directory perform as employee management while ntds.dit is the mastercard database of that company.


NTDS.DIT DUMPING : 
It is a process or attack in active directory in which an attacker extract all the information from the Active Directory Database. 
Extract information like credentials based and domain related information from AD Database.
Extraction based attack.


Why this is important : stores all credntials or domain related information. (ek important file jo attacker lena chahta hai active directoy attacke me domain controller se)


Attack methdology : 
Attacker targets domain controller becasue this file stored on the domain controller. so attacker or user have to much privileges to contact or query the DC.
1. Attacker have Initial Access on any system in a network through :
    a. Phishing
    b. Stolen Credntilas.
    c. Misconfiguration
    d. Vulnerability Exploitation

2. Attacker esclates his privileges same to DC (Domain Controller) (attacker try to gain higher privileges on system to query DC or become some of following :
Goal of privileges : 🎯
    a. Local Administrator
    b. Domain Admin
    c. Equivalent privilege Account

3. Attacker find Activee Directory info like :
    a. Domain Controller
    b. Users
    c. Groups
    d. Trust relationships

4. Attacker try to equivalent (same) privileges to DC because ntds.dit stored here.
5. Domain Controller Access and dump the file or hashes.
6. Privilege Escalation through Credentials dump by accessing the AD database.
    a. Additional systems access kar sakta hai.
    b. New accounts compromise kar sakta hai.
    c. Domain-wide movement kar sakta hai.


🛡️ Blue team (Defensive Prespective) : 
blue teamers can see these suspicious sign or anlayze this  :
    a. Unusual Domain Controller access
    b. Sensitive file access
    c. Backup misuse
    d. Privileged account activity
    e. Credential harvesting behavior






